add external authorization task (#8751)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-custom/index.md

---
title: External authorization with custom action
description: Shows how to integrate and delegate access control to an external authorization system.
weight: 35
keywords: [security,access-control,rbac,authorization,custom, opa, oauth, oauth2-proxy]
owner: istio/wg-security-maintainers
test: no
---

> This task shows you how to set up Istio authorization policy with a [`CUSTOM` action](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/328c3a37131887008ddc8ed469f5296e57c27946/security/v1beta1/authorization_policy.proto#L296)

Reviewer: Hmm, pointing to a specific line number in the .proto file is very fargile. It will be off as soon as any change is made to the file. I didn't realize that the CUSTOM value is currently hidden from docs.

Maybe, instead, it would be better to say something like this:

```suggestion
This task shows you how to set up an Istio authorization policy using a new experimental value for the [action field](/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/#AuthorizationPolicy-Action), `CUSTOM`,
```

    deployment.apps/istiod restarted
    {{< /text >}}

## Deploy the external authorizer

Next, you need to deploy the external authorizer. For this, you will simply deploy the sample external authorizer in a standalone pod in the mesh.

1. Run the following command to deploy the sample external authorizer:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n foo -f {{< github_file >}}/samples/extauthz/ext-authz.yaml
    service/ext-authz created
    deployment.apps/ext-authz created
    {{< /text >}}

1. Verify the sample external authorizer is up and running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl logs $(kubectl get pod -l app=ext-authz -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name}) -n foo -c ext-authz
    2021/01/07 22:55:47 Starting HTTP server at [::]:8000
    2021/01/07 22:55:47 Starting gRPC server at [::]:9000
    {{< /text >}}

Alternatively, you can also deploy the external authorizer as a separate container in the same pod of the application
that needs the external authorization or even deploy it outside of the mesh. In either case, you will also need to create a
service entry resource to register the service to the mesh and make sure it is accessible to the proxy.

> The following is an example service entry an external authorizer deployed in a separate container in the same pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example service entry for an external authorizer deployed in a separate container in the same pod
```

---
title: External authorization with custom action

> description: Shows how to integrate and delegate access control to external authorization system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Shows how to integrate and delegate access control to an external authorization system.
```

weight: 35
keywords: [security,access-control,rbac,authorization,custom, opa, oauth, oauth2-proxy]
owner: istio/wg-security-maintainers
test: no
---

> This task shows you how to set up Istio authorization policy with the `CUSTOM` action to delegate the access control to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This task shows you how to set up an Istio authorization policy with a [`CUSTOM` action](link to ref doc?) to delegate the access control to
```

an external authorization system. This can be used to integrate with [OPA authorization](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/envoy-authorization/),
[oauth2-proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy), your own custom external authorization server and more.

{{< boilerplate experimental-feature-warning >}}

> ## Before you begin
> 
> Before tackling this task you must perform the following actions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Before you begin
```

* Read the [authorization concept](/docs/concepts/security/#authorization).

* Follow the [Istio installation guide](/docs/setup/install/istioctl/) to install Istio.

* Deploy test workloads:

>     This task uses two workloads, httpbin and sleep, deployed on one namespace, foo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This task uses two workloads, `httpbin` and `sleep`, both deployed in namespace `foo`.
```

>     Both workloads run with an Envoy proxy in front of each. Deploy the example namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Both workloads run with an Envoy proxy sidecar. Deploy the `foo` namespace
```

    and workloads with the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}

>     $ kubectl create ns foo

Reviewer: Don't you need to add label to enable sidecar injection?

Author: Updated.

    $ kubectl apply -f samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml -n foo
    $ kubectl apply -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml -n foo
    {{< /text >}}

> * Verify that `sleep` talks to `httpbin` with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify that `sleep` can access `httpbin` with the following command:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec "$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c sleep -n foo -- curl http://httpbin.foo:8000/ip -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    200
    {{< /text >}}

{{< warning >}}
If you don’t see the expected output as you follow the task, retry after a few seconds.
Caching and propagation overhead can cause some delay.
{{< /warning >}}

## Define the external authorizer

In order to use the `CUSTOM` action in the authorization policy, you must first define the external authorizer that is allowed to be
used in the mesh. This is currently defined in the [extension provider](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/a205c627e4b955302bbb77dd837c8548e89e6e64/mesh/v1alpha1/config.proto#L534)
in the mesh config.

The current only supported extension provider type is the [Envoy ext_authz](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.16.2/intro/arch_overview/security/ext_authz_filter) provider.

> The external authorizer must implement the corresponding Envoy ext_authz check API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The external authorizer must implement the corresponding Envoy `ext_authz` check API.
```

> In this task, we will use the [sample external authorizer]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/extauthz) that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this task, you will use a [sample external authorizer]({{< github_tree >}}/samples/extauthz) which
```

> allows a request if it includes the header `x-ext-authz: allow`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allows requests with the header `x-ext-authz: allow`.
```

1. Edit the mesh config with the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl edit configmap istio -n istio-system
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. In the editor, add the extension providers definition according to the following comment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the editor, add the extension provider definitions shown below:
```

    The following content defines two external providers `sample-ext-authz-grpc` and `sample-ext-authz-http` using the
    same service `ext-authz.foo.svc.cluster.local`. The service implements both the HTTP and gRPC check API as defined by

>     the Envoy ext_authz filter. We will deploy the service in the following step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    the Envoy ext_authz filter. You will deploy the service in the following step.
```

    {{< text yaml >}}
    data:
      mesh: |-
        # Add the following content to define the external authorizers.
        extensionProviders:
        - name: "sample-ext-authz-grpc"
          envoyExtAuthzGrpc:
            service: "ext-authz.foo.svc.cluster.local"
            port: "9000"
        - name: "sample-ext-authz-http"
          envoyExtAuthzHttp:
            service: "ext-authz.foo.svc.cluster.local"
            port: "8000"
            includeHeadersInCheck: ["x-ext-authz"]
    {{< /text >}}

>     Alternatively, you can modify the extension provider to control the behavior of the ext_authz filter for things like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Alternatively, you can modify the extension provider to control the behavior of the `ext_authz` filter for things like
```

    what headers to send to the external authorizer, what headers to send to the application backend, the status to return
    on error and more.

>     For example, the following is an example extension provider that can be used with the [oauth2-proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For example, the following defines an extension provider that can be used with the [oauth2-proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy):
```

    {{< text yaml >}}
    data:
      mesh: |-
        extensionProviders:
        - name: "oauth2-proxy"
          envoyExtAuthzHttp:
            service: "oauth2-proxy.foo.svc.cluster.local"
            port: "4180" # The default port used by oauth2-proxy.
            includeHeadersInCheck: ["authorization", "cookie"] # headers sent to the oauth2-proxy in the check request.
            headersToUpstreamOnAllow: ["authorization", "path", "x-auth-request-user", "x-auth-request-email", "x-auth-request-access-token"] # headers sent to backend application when request is allowed.
            headersToDownstreamOnDeny: ["content-type", "set-cookie"] # headers sent back to the client when request is denied.
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Restart Istiod to make sure the change to take effect with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Restart Istiod to allow the change to take effect with the following command:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl rollout restart deployment/istiod -n istio-system
    deployment.apps/istiod restarted
    {{< /text >}}

## Deploy the external authorizer

> Next you need to deploy the external authorizer. In this task, we will simply deploy the sample external authorizer in a standalone pod in the mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you need to deploy the external authorizer. For this, you will simply deploy the sample external authorizer in a standalone pod in the mesh.
```

1. Run the following command to deploy the sample external authorizer:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n foo -f {{< github_file >}}/samples/extauthz/ext-authz.yaml
    service/ext-authz created
    deployment.apps/ext-authz created
    {{< /text >}}

1. Verify the sample external authorizer is up and running:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl logs $(kubectl get pod -l app=ext-authz -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name}) -n foo -c ext-authz
    2021/01/07 22:55:47 Starting HTTP server at [::]:8000
    2021/01/07 22:55:47 Starting gRPC server at [::]:9000
    {{< /text >}}

Alternatively, you can also deploy the external authorizer as a separate container in the same pod of the application

> that needs the external authorization or even deploy it out of the mesh. In either case, you will also need to create a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that needs the external authorization or even deploy it outside of the mesh. In either case, you will also need to create a
```

service entry resource to register the service to the mesh and make sure it is accessible to the proxy.

> The following is an example service entry if the external authorizer is deployed in a separate container in the same pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example service entry an external authorizer deployed in a separate container in the same pod
```

of the application that needs the external authorization.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: ServiceEntry
metadata:
name: external-authz-grpc-local
spec:
  hosts:
  - "external-authz-grpc.local" # The service name to be used in the extension provider in the mesh config.
  endpoints:
  - address: "127.0.0.1"
  ports:
  - name: grpc
    number: 9191 # The port number to be used in the extension provider in the mesh config.
    protocol: GRPC
  resolution: STATIC
{{< /text >}}

## Enable with external authorization

> Now the external authorizer is ready to be used by the authorization policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The external authorizer is now ready to be used by the authorization policy.
```

1. Enable the external authorization with the following command:

>     The following command applies an authorization policy of `CUSTOM` action for the httpbin workload. The policy enables the external authorization for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The following command applies an authorization policy with the `CUSTOM` action value for the `httpbin` workload. The policy enables the external authorization for
```

>     requests at path `/headers` using the external authorizer defined by `sample-ext-authz-grpc`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    requests to path `/headers` using the external authorizer defined by `sample-ext-authz-grpc`.
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -n foo -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: AuthorizationPolicy
    metadata:
      name: ext-authz
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: httpbin
      action: CUSTOM
      provider:
        # The provider name must match the extension provider defined in the mesh config.
        # You can also replace this with sample-ext-authz-http to test the other external authorizer definition.
        name: sample-ext-authz-grpc
      rules:
      # The rules specify when to trigger the external authorizer.
      - to:
        - operation:
            paths: ["/headers"]
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

>     In runtime, requests to the httpbin workload at the path `/headers` will be paused by the ext_authz filter, and a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    At runtime, requests to path `/headers` of the `httpbin` workload will be paused by the `ext_authz` filter, and a
```

    check request will be sent to the external authorizer to decide whether the request should be allowed or denied.

> 1. Verify the request at path `/headers` with header `x-ext-authz: allow` is allowed by the sample ext_authz server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify a request to path `/headers` with header `x-ext-authz: allow` is allowed by the sample `ext_authz` server:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec "$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c sleep -n foo -- curl "http://httpbin.foo:8000/headers" -H "x-ext-authz: allow" -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    200
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Verify the request at path `/headers` with the header `x-ext-authz: deny` is denied by the sample ext_authz server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify a request to path `/headers` with header `x-ext-authz: deny` is denied by the sample `ext_authz` server:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec "$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c sleep -n foo -- curl "http://httpbin.foo:8000/headers" -H "x-ext-authz: deny" -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    403
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Verify the request at path `/ip` is allowed and does not trigger the external authorization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify a request to path `/ip` is allowed and does not trigger the external authorization:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec "$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c sleep -n foo -- curl "http://httpbin.foo:8000/ip" -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    200
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Check the log of the sample ext_authz server to confirm it is called twice for the two requests, the first one is allowed and the second one is denied:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check the log of the sample `ext_authz` server to confirm it was called twice (for the two requests). The first one was allowed and the second one was denied:
```

    {{< /text >}}

>     You can also tell from the log that mTLS is enabled for the connection between the ext-authz filter and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can also tell from the log that mTLS is enabled for the connection between the `ext-authz` filter and the
```

>     sample ext-authz server because the source principal is populated with the value `spiffe://cluster.local/ns/foo/sa/sleep`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sample `ext-authz` server because the source principal is populated with the value `spiffe://cluster.local/ns/foo/sa/sleep`.
```

>     You can further apply another authorization policy for the sample ext-authz server to control who is allowed to access it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can now apply another authorization policy for the sample `ext-authz` server to control who is allowed to access it.
```

## Clean up

> 1. Remove the namespace foo from your configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove the namespace `foo` from your configuration:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete namespace foo
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Remove the extension provider definition in the mesh config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove the extension provider definition from the mesh config.
```
